# Family-Tree-Simulation
A digital simulation of a family tree based on the quantity of documents in the Digital Public Library of America (DPLA) for that last name. Created using Processing software and JSON files from DPLA.

The Family Tree

Joanna Parkhurst

When we started searching through the Digital Public Library of America, I immediately noticed the focus on heritage and American history in the library. For this reason, I felt drawn towards the idea of creating a more personal way of searching through thousands of documents. Each generation has a different way of collecting memories. Whether it’s quilts, dolls, books, pictures, or Instagram – we hold onto things that remind us of where we’ve been and what we’ve done. Unfortunately for us, some of these mediums are difficult to preserve or keep track of after time. We have museums, libraries and universities for keeping artifacts that contribute to world or American history – but what about individual family histories? The Digital Public Library of America is an amazing way to be able to collect these items, share it with others, and easily find things. With a tool like this, it’s easier than ever to find artifacts that contribute to your own family’s history. I decided to create an image that would represent a family tree. The size and number of leaves on the tree represent the results when the user enters in a word into the text field. By searching through titles that already contain the word “family”, the likelihood of finding documents that relate to a family name are very high.

After searching through the returned documents many times, I realized that there is a large number of English last names and a lack of any unique last names. Part of this issue is that I’m only searching through 1,000 documents at a time since the processing program tends to shut down or freeze if I go above that.

In addition, it is extremely hard to filter through titles and descriptions to only get last names. There isn’t a dictionary of last names to cross-reference, a minimum size for last names, or a letter/string that precedes it. Any effort to produce only last names would mean manually entering the most common last names. This would also further perpetuate the appearance of only common last names. In the end, I believe that this project was an extremely interesting way of interpreting a particular data set. Using the Digital Public Library of America was a great place to find relevant data and I enjoyed becoming familiar with interpreting JSON files. In the future I would love to apply this project and idea to larger and even more specific sets of data.
